---
layout: default
title: Hello World & Errors
type: Homework
number: 00
active_tab: homework
release_date: 2023-09-04
due_date: 2023-09-11 23:59:00EDT

---

<!-- Check whether the assignment is ready to release -->
{% capture today %}{{'now' | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture release_date %}{{page.release_date | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if release_date > today %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->


<!-- Check whether the assignment is up to date -->
{% capture this_year %}{{'now' | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture due_year %}{{page.due_date | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if this_year != due_year %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->



{% if page.materials %}
<div class="alert alert-info">
You can download the materials for this assignment here:
<ul>
{% for item in page.materials %}
<li><a href="{{item.url}}">{{ item.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>


<i>Remember to make a copy of the notebook into your own Drive by choosing “Save a Copy in Drive” from Colab’s “File” menu.</i>

</div>
{% endif %}





{{page.type}} {{page.number}}: {{page.title}}
=============================================================

_Due: {{page.due_date}}_

## Pre-course survey (2 points)

Please fill out this short [survey](https://forms.gle/gwCeMMZ5DdiKheCS6). Your answers will help your instructor get to know you and learn what you hope to get out of this course. This will help me modify the course to best fit your interests.

## Fortune Cookie! (5 points)

Write a program, `Fortune.java`, which prints a fortune like the ones typically found in fortune cookies. Use the program as a starting point. 

```java
1.  // Name:
2.  // Date:
3.  // Description: Print a fortune to the console
4. 
5.  public class Fortune {
6. 
7.    public static void main(String[] args) {
8.      System.out.println("Hello World!"); // todo: your message here
9.    }
10. } 

```
You can download `Fortune.java` from the course website using the following command:

```bash
wget {{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/hws/hw00/Fortune.java
```

Make sure to first `cd` (move) into the hw00 directory that you made in Lab00.
You can do so by running:

```bassh
$ cd cs113/
$ cd homeworks/
$ cd hw00/
```

Run `pwd` to confirm that you are in your `hw00/` directory. Then run the `wget` command from above.

Below is an example of compiling and running the program in the command line:

```bassh
$ javac Fortune.java
$ java Fortune
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
```

**Dont forget:** make sure to fill in the header in `Fortune.java`.

## Error Messages (10 points)

Programming is very similar to writing. A first draft is always messy. Its no
different when programming, you'll make plenty of mistakes when first writing
any program. A nice thing about programming is that the compiler is your friend who will tell you the mistakes that you've made.
First delete the binary file (`Fortune.class`) that was created when you compiled `Fortune.java`. 

In this part of the assignment, we are going to make some mistakes on purpose. 
For each of the following changes 1) copy the error message you see when compiling the program and 2) a simple explanation of what you think that message might mean. If the program compiles, try running it. 

Save your answers in a new file called `ERRORS.txt`. After making each edit listed below, revert the edit so that the file is the same as when you ended the last part of this assignment.

1. Remove the `;` at the end of line 8.
2. Change `Fortune` in line 5 to `fortune`.
3. Change `main` to `blah` in line 7.
4. Remove the `}` in line 10.
5. Remove the `}` in line 9.
6. Create your own error (describe the change in ERRORS.txt)


## What is Computer Science? (5 points)

Read [Computer Science: Not about Computers, Not Science](https://www2.lawrence.edu/fast/krebsbak/Research/Publications/pdf/fecs15.pdf).

In a new file called `HW00_READING.txt` answer the following questions:

1. According to the author, if computer science is not about computers, then what is it about?
2. In your own words, what is an algorithm.
3. According to the author, why is computer science not a science?
4. The author writes that he "often find[s] that eager undergraduates
are either excited about something that is not CS, or stems from an advanced topic that definitely is CS." Are there any things that you are excited about that you thought is CS but might not fit under the author's definition of CS? Alternatively, are there any advanced topics that excited that you now think are definetly CS based on teh author's definition.
5. Feel free to provide any additional feedback. 

## Submitting

Submit the following files to the assignment called `HW00` on Gradescope:

1. `Fortune.java`
2. `ERRORS.txt` 
3. `HW00_READING.txt`

Make sure to name these files exactly what we specify here. Otherwise,
our autograders might not work and we might have to take points off.

#### Copying the files 
You will likely want to submit the files from your own laptop/computer.
To copy the files from `goldengate` to your own machine, 
open up a terminal on your own computer. If you have a mac or linux, you can use the 
Terminal application, if you have a windows you can use the Powershell app.

Run the following command:

```bassh
$ scp <username>@goldengate.cs.brynmawr.edu/home/<username>/cs113/homeworks/hw00/*
```

Make sure to replace `<username>` with your username. `scp` is a command to secure-copy files
from one server to another. In this case, from `goldengate` to your own machine.

