---
layout: default
title: Variables & Scanner
type: Homework
number: 01
active_tab: homework
release_date: 2023-01-25
due_date: 2023-02-01 23:59:00EDT

---

<!-- Check whether the assignment is ready to release -->
{% capture today %}{{'now' | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture release_date %}{{page.release_date | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if release_date > today %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->


<!-- Check whether the assignment is up to date -->
{% capture this_year %}{{'now' | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture due_year %}{{page.due_date | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if this_year != due_year %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->



{% if page.materials %}
<div class="alert alert-info">
You can download the materials for this assignment here:
<ul>
{% for item in page.materials %}
<li><a href="{{item.url}}">{{ item.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>


<i>Remember to make a copy of the notebook into your own Drive by choosing “Save a Copy in Drive” from Colab’s “File” menu.</i>

</div>
{% endif %}





{{page.type}} {{page.number}}: {{page.title}}
=============================================================

In this assignment you will be working with variables, and reading in user data with the `Scanner` class. 

> Note, in the examples, `*` indicates user input.


## 1. Calories

Write a program called `Calories.java` that computes the amount of calories a person burns in a week while walking. Each person burns a different amount of calories for every mile they walk. You will ask a user to input
 
1. how many miles they walked on average each day (a double)
2. an estimate of how many calories they burn per mile walked (a double).

The program will then print out how many calories the person burned that week by walking.

```
$ javac Calories.java; java Calories
How many miles did you walk each day? *2.3*
How many calories do you burn per mile? *100.2*
This week you burned 1613.22 calories by walking.
```

>Requirements:
>
> - Use `printf` Print out two decimal points

## 2. Timer
Write a program, `Timer.java` that computes the time when the user will finish all of their tasks. The program should ask the user for the following information:

1. The current time
2. How many tasks they need to complete
3. How long a task takes (we can assume that each task takes the same amount of time).

Here is an example

```
$ javac Tasks.java ; java Tasks
Enter the current hour: *23*
Enter the number of tasks: *1*
Enter the number of hours a task takes: *5*

You will finish at 4:00 o'clock.

$ javac Tasks.java ; java Tasks
Enter the current hour: *9*
Enter the number of tasks: *3*
Enter the number of hours a task takes: *2*

You will finish at 15:00 o'clock.
```

You can assume that all times are integers that represent the time on a [24-hr "military" clock. For example, 7 PM is 19:00, or 19, in this representation.

>Requirements:
>
> - Use `printf`, dont worry about minutes or seconds, just hours.
> Use the `%` operator


## 3. Zoo time! 

Write a program, called `Zoo.java`, which will ask a prompt the user for the following information:

1. one animal
2. a noun
2. another animal
3. an adjective
3. a third animal
4. an adjective
4. a fourth animal
5. an adjective
5. a drink 

and then prints out the following song:

```
$ javac Zoo.java; java Zoo
Please input an animal: *monkey*
Please input a noun: *honesty*
Please input an animal: *giraffes*
Please input a adjcetive: *insincere*
Please input a noun: *insincere*
Please input an animal: *elephant*
Please input an adjective: *dumb*
Please input an animal: *orangutans*
Please input an adjective: *skeptical*
Please input a drink: *rum*

The monkeys stand for honesty
giraffes are insincere
And the elephants are kindly but they're dumb
orangutans are skeptical
Of changes in their cages
And the zookeeper is very fond of rum
```



## README.txt

In a text file called `README.txt` answer the following questions:

1. How much time did you spend on the homework
2. What did you learn from this homework
3. optional: What did you struggle with during this homework
4. optional: any other feedback you would like to share

**Dont forget:** make sure to fill in the header in all of your java files.

## Submitting

Submit the following files to the assignment called `HW01` on Gradescope:

1. `Zoo.java`
2. `Timer.java`
3. `Calories.java`
4. `README.txt`

Make sure to name these files exactly what we specify here. Otherwise,
our autograders might not work and we might have to take points off.
