---
layout: default
title: Methods, Methods, Methods
type: Homework
number: 02
active_tab: homework
release_date: 2023-02-02
due_date: 2023-02-08 23:59:00EDT

---

<!-- Check whether the assignment is ready to release -->
{% capture today %}{{'now' | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture release_date %}{{page.release_date | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if release_date > today %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->


<!-- Check whether the assignment is up to date -->
{% capture this_year %}{{'now' | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture due_year %}{{page.due_date | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if this_year != due_year %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->



{% if page.materials %}
<div class="alert alert-info">
You can download the materials for this assignment here:
<ul>
{% for item in page.materials %}
<li><a href="{{item.url}}">{{ item.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>


<i>Remember to make a copy of the notebook into your own Drive by choosing “Save a Copy in Drive” from Colab’s “File” menu.</i>

</div>
{% endif %}





{{page.type}} {{page.number}}: {{page.title}}
=============================================================

In this assignment you will be working with variables, and reading in user data with the `Scanner` class, and creating `methods`


> Requirements:
> 
> - Use `printf`. You are not allowed to use any other
> method for printing output 
> - Every method you created should be tested in the class's main method.
> - Every java file should have a header. However, ***DO NOT PUT YOUR NAME IN YOUR HEADERS***. On gradescope we grade your assignments anonymously so including your name in your Java file will defeat that purpose. However, please include your name in your README.txt

> Note, in the examples, `*` indicates user input.



## 1. Dates

Write a program called `Dates.java` that will print out dates in different formats. The program should ask the user for the following information:

1. Day of the week, e.g. `Sunday`, `Monday`, ...
2. Month, e.g. `June`, `July`
3. The day of the month, e.g. `10`, `29`, ...
4. The year `2023`, `1990`, `1754`

Then create the following two methods:

- `printEuropean`: this prints the information in the European format
- `printAmerican`: this prints the information in the American format.

Both methods should have four paramaters. The order of the parameters should match the order listed above.
 

```
$ javac Dates.java; java Dates
What is a day of the week? *Thursday*
What is the month? *January*
What is the day of the month? *26*
What is the year? *2023*

European format: Thursday, January 26, 2023
American format: Thursday 26 January 2023
```


## 2. Control Flow

For this problem you will walk through the flow of execution of a program with multiple methods. Read the following code and answer the questions in a file called `ControlFlow.txt`. We removed `public static` for stylistic sakes, you can assume every method signature starts with `public static`


```
  1   int fallOf(int num) {
  2     System.out.println("1 fell off and bumped their head");
  3     return num - 1;
  4   }
  5 
  6   void callDoctor(String animal) {
  7     System.out.println("Momma called the doctor and the doctor said\nNo more " + animal + "jumping on the bed");
  8   }
  9 
 10   void jumping(int num, String animal) {
 11     System.out.printf("There were %d %s jumping on the bed", num, animal);
 12   }
 13 
 14   void jumping(String animal, int num) {
 15     System.out.printf("There were %d %s jumping on the bed", num, animal);
 16   }
 17 
 18   void song(String animal, int num) {
 19     jumping(animal, num);
 20     num = fallOf(num);
 21     callDoctor(animal);
 22     jumping(animal, num);
 23     num = fallOf(num);
 24     callDoctor(animal);
 25     jumping(animal, num);
 26     num = fallOf(num);
 27     callDoctor(animal);
 28   }
 29 
 30   void main() {
 31     song("monkeys", 4);
 32   }
 33 
 34   void main(String[] args) {
 35     song("monkeys", 4);
 36   }
 37 }
```

1. Write down the line numbers in the order of which they are executed. For example, if java executed each line one at a time from the top of a file to the bottom, you would write something like `1, 2, 3, 4, ...`.

2. What is the value of the parameter `num` in the `void jumping(String animal, int num)` method the first time that method is called.

3. What is the output of this program.

> Requirement: make to sure to seperate each line number by a comma (,), otherwise our autograder wont work and you will lose points.


## 3. Payments 

BMC needs a program to calculate how much to pay their hourly employees. The US Department of Labor requires that employees get paid time and a half for any hours over 40 that they work in a single week. For example, if an employee works 45 hours, they get 5 hours of overtime, at 1.5 times their base pay. BMC employess are paid at \$15.00 an hour. Employees are not allowed to work more than 60 hours in a week.

### Rules:

- An employee gets paid (hours worked) × (base pay), for each hour up to 40 hours.
- For every hour over 40, they get overtime = (base pay) × 1.5.
- The base pay must not be less than the minimum wage ($15.00 an hour). If it is, print a message. If the number of hours is greater than 60, print an error message.

### Directions

Create a new class called `Payments`.
Write a method called `pay()` that takes the base pay and hours worked as parameters, and prints the total pay or an error. Write a main method that calls this method for each of these employees:

|  	| Base Pay 	| Hours Worked 	|
|---	|---	|---	|
| Employee 1 	| $22.50 	| 48 	|
| Employee 2 	| $14.90 	| 38 	|
| Employee 3 	| $30.92 	| 70 	|
| Employee 4 	| $16.75 	|  29	|



## README.txt

In a text file called `README.txt` answer the following questions:

1. How much time did you spend on the homework
2. What did you learn from this homework
3. optional: What did you struggle with during this homework
4. optional: any other feedback you would like to share

**Dont forget:** make sure to fill in the header in all of your java files.

## Submitting

Submit the following files to the assignment called `HW02` on Gradescope:

1. `Dates.java`
2. `ControlFlow.txt`
3. `Payments.java`
4. `README.txt`

Make sure to name these files exactly what we specify here. Otherwise,
our autograders might not work and we might have to take points off.
