---
layout: default
title: Methods, Conditionals, Strings, and Arrays
type: Homework
number: 03
active_tab: homework
release_date: 2023-02-08
due_date: 2023-02-15 23:59:00EDT

---

<!-- Check whether the assignment is ready to release -->
{% capture today %}{{'now' | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture release_date %}{{page.release_date | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if release_date > today %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->


<!-- Check whether the assignment is up to date -->
{% capture this_year %}{{'now' | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture due_year %}{{page.due_date | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if this_year != due_year %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->



{% if page.materials %}
<div class="alert alert-info">
You can download the materials for this assignment here:
<ul>
{% for item in page.materials %}
<li><a href="{{item.url}}">{{ item.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>


<i>Remember to make a copy of the notebook into your own Drive by choosing “Save a Copy in Drive” from Colab’s “File” menu.</i>

</div>
{% endif %}





{{page.type}} {{page.number}}: {{page.title}}
=============================================================

In this assignment you will be working with methods, `Strings`, and `Arrays`.


> Requirements:
> 
> - Every method you created should be tested in the class's main method.
> - Every java file should have a header. However, ***DO NOT PUT YOUR NAME IN YOUR HEADERS***. On gradescope we grade your assignments anonymously so including your name in your Java file will defeat that purpose. However, please include your name in your README.txt
> - Every method should contain a javdoc that briefly describes the method, lists the params, and the return type/value. Use the notation that we used in lectures.
> - Dont forget to add `public static` to every method signature. If a method does not have these, the autograder will fail and you wont receive any points for that method.

> For these methods, you are not allowed to use a loop since we did not cover loops yet. **WARNING:**Using a loop in a method will result in getting 0 points for that method!

> Note, in the examples, `*` indicates user input.


> Update 02/11: **WARNING:** In this assignment you are **NOT ALLOWED** to import any packages. For example, you cannot use the builtin `Arrays` java class to reverse an array. Doing so will result in earning **ZERO POINTS** for a method that uses it.

> Update 02/12: **IF YOUR CODE DOES NOT COMPILE ON GRADESCOPE, YOU WILL NOT RECEIVE ANY POINTS FROM THE AUTOGRADER**. When you submit, make sure to check if the autograder compiles and if you test some of the public test cases.


## 1. Playing with Words!

Write a program called `WordsWordsWords.java` that implements the following methods. Make sure to test the methods in the file's main method.

 
> **Hint**: You will want to use some of the `String` methods covered in Lab02 and Lab03.


## 1.1 abecedarian

A word is said to be “abecedarian” if the letters in the word
appear in alphabetical order. For example, the following are all six-letter
English abecedarian words:

> abdest, acknow, acorsy, adempt, adipsy, agnosy, befist, behint,
beknow, bijoux, biopsy, cestuy, chintz, deflux, dehors, dehort, deinos,
diluvy, dimpsy

Write a method called `isAbecedarian` that takes a String and returns a
boolean indicating whether the word is abecedarian. 

Your method should only work for words that have 6 letters. If a word does not have 6 letters, the method should return `false`. 

The method should work for non-alpha numeric characters. For example, the method should return true if the string is `456789`.



## 1.2 doubloon

A word is said to be a “doubloon” if every letter that appears
in the word appears exactly twice. Here are some example doubloons found
in the dictionary:

> Abba, Anna, appall, appearer, appeases, arraigning, beriberi, bilabial,
boob, Caucasus, coco, Dada, deed, Emmett, Hannah, horseshoer,
intestines, Isis, mama, Mimi, murmur, noon, Otto, papa, peep,
reappear, redder, sees, Shanghaiings, Toto

Write a method called `isDoubloon` that takes a string and checks whether it is
a doubloon. To ignore case, invoke the toLowerCase method before checking.

Your method should only work for words that have 6 letters. If a word does not have 6 letters, the method should return `false`. If the words contains a character that is not an English letter, i.e. a character that is not `a-z` or `A-Z`, the method should return `false`.

> Hint: it might be helpful to create an array to keep track of how many times each character appears.


## 1.3 Isopsephy

[Isopsephy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isopsephy) is the practice of adding up the number values of the letters in a word to form a single number, in Hebrew we often refer to this as [Gematria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gematria). 

> Hint: you might find it helpful to create a method that returns the isopsephy value of a word. When often refer to these types of methods as **helper methods** since they implement some functionality that you use over and over again.

### 1.3.1 avgIsopsephy
Write a method called `avgIsopsephy` that takes in 5 words and returns the average isopsephy value of the words. If any of the words do not contain 4 letters, the method should return `-1.`

### 1.3.2 isopsephySumEqual
Write a method called `isopsephySumEqual ` that takes in 2 words and determines if the sums of the isopsephy of each word are equal to each other. The method should return a boolean. Again, if any of the words do not contain 4 letters, the method should return `false`.



## 1.4 Reverse String

Write a method called `reverseString ` that takes in a string and returns the reverse string. If the word does not contain 10 letters, return an empty string.

> Hint: String concatenation might be helpful here.


# 2. Arrays

In a file called `ArrayMethods.java`, write the following methods.

## 2.1 abecedarian


### 2.1.1 Characters
Write a method called `isAbecedarian` that takes an array of characters and returns a
boolean indicating whether the characters appear in alphabetical order. 

Your method should only work for arrays that have 6 characters. If a word does not have 6 characters, the method should return `false`.

### 2.1.2 Integers
Write a method called `isAbecedarian` that takes an array of integers and returns a
boolean indicating whether the integers are sorted in ascending order.  **Note:** 1234 is an example of ascending order while 4321 is descending order. 

Your method should only work for arrays that have 6 integers. If a word does not have 6 integers, the method should return `false`.

### 2.1.3 Doubles
Write a method called `isAbecedarian` that takes an array of double and returns a
boolean indicating whether the doubles are sorted in descending order.  **Note:** 1234 is an example of ascending order while 4321 is descending order. 

Your method should only work for arrays that have 6 doubles. If a word does not have 6 doubles, the method should return `false`.

## 2.2 doubloon

Write a method called `isDoubloon` that takes an array of characters and checks whether each character in the array appears twice. 

Your method should only work for arrays that have 6 letters. If a array does not have 6 characters, the method should return `false`. Your method should also work for only lower case letter (a-z). If the array contains a character that is not a lower case letter, the method should return `false`.

## 2.3 Isopsephy

### 2.3.1 avgIsopsephy
Write a method called `avgIsopsephy` that takes in an array of 5 words and returns the average isopsephy value of the words. If any of the words do not contain 4 letters, the method should return `-1.`

### 2.3.2 maxIsopsephy
Write a method called `maxIsopsephy` that takes in an array of 5 words and returns the word that has the largest isopsephy value. If any of the words do not contain 4 letters, the method should return an empty String (`""`).

### 2.3.3 minIsopsephy
Write a method called `minIsopsephy` that takes in an array of 5 words and returns the word that has the smallest isopsephy value. If any of the words do not contain 4 letters, the method should return an empty String (`""`).

### 2.3.4 isopsephySumEqual
Write a method called `isopsephySumEqual ` that takes in an array of 2 words and determines if the sums of the isopsephy of each word are equal to each other. The method should return a boolean. Again, if any of the words do not contain 4 letters, the method should return `false`.

## 2.4 Reverse Array

### 2.4.1 Integers
Write a method called `reverse` that takes in an array of integers and  returns an array where the order of the integers is reversed. If the word does not contain 10 integers, return an empty array.

### 2.4.1 Characters
Write a method called `reverse` that takes in an array of characters and  returns an array where the order of the characters is reversed. If the array does not contain 10 characters, return an empty array.

### 2.4.1 Strings
Write a method called `reverse` that takes in an array of Strings and returns an array where the order of the strings is reversed. If the array does not contain 10 strings and if each string does not contain 5 characters, return an empty array.




## README.txt

In a text file called `README.txt` answer the following questions:

1. How much time did you spend on the homework
2. What did you learn from this homework
3. optional: What did you struggle with during this homework
4. optional: any other feedback you would like to share

**Dont forget:** make sure to fill in the header in all of your java files.

## Submitting

Submit the following files to the assignment called `HW03` on Gradescope:

1. `ArrayMethods.java`
2. `WordsWordsWords.java`
4. `README.txt`

Make sure to name these files exactly what we specify here and name the methods exactly what we specify too. Otherwise,
our autograders might not work and we might have to take points off.
