---
layout: default
title: Recursion
type: Homework
number: 03
active_tab: homework
release_date: 2023-02-16
due_date: 2023-02-22 23:59:00EDT

---

<!-- Check whether the assignment is ready to release -->
{% capture today %}{{'now' | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture release_date %}{{page.release_date | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if release_date > today %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->


<!-- Check whether the assignment is up to date -->
{% capture this_year %}{{'now' | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture due_year %}{{page.due_date | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if this_year != due_year %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->



{% if page.materials %}
<div class="alert alert-info">
You can download the materials for this assignment here:
<ul>
{% for item in page.materials %}
<li><a href="{{item.url}}">{{ item.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>


<i>Remember to make a copy of the notebook into your own Drive by choosing “Save a Copy in Drive” from Colab’s “File” menu.</i>

</div>
{% endif %}





{{page.type}} {{page.number}}: {{page.title}}
=============================================================

In this assignment you will be working with methods, `Strings`, and `Arrays`. You will be implementing the following methods recursively.


> Requirements:
> 
> - Every method you created should be tested in the class's main method.
> - Every java file should have a header. However, ***DO NOT PUT YOUR NAME IN YOUR HEADERS***. On gradescope we grade your assignments anonymously so including your name in your Java file will defeat that purpose. However, please include your name in your README.txt
> - Every method should contain a javdoc that briefly describes the method, lists the params, and the return type/value. Use the notation that we used in lectures.
> - Dont forget to add `public static` to every method signature. If a method does not have these, the autograder will fail and you wont receive any points for that method.

> For these methods, you are not allowed to use a loop since we did not cover loops yet. **WARNING:**Using a loop in a method will result in getting 0 points for that method!

> Note, in the examples, `*` indicates user input.


> Update 02/11: **WARNING:** In this assignment you are **NOT ALLOWED** to import any packages. For example, you cannot use the builtin `Arrays` java class to reverse an array. Doing so will result in earning **ZERO POINTS** for a method that uses it.

> Update 02/12: **IF YOUR CODE DOES NOT COMPILE ON GRADESCOPE, YOU WILL NOT RECEIVE ANY POINTS FROM THE AUTOGRADER**. When you submit, make sure to check if the autograder compiles and if you test some of the public test cases.


## 1. Numbers


Write a program called `NumbersRecursion.java` that implements the following methods. Make sure to test the methods in the file's main method.

### 1.1 Previous even

Write a method called `previousEven` that takes in an integer and prints out all the previous even numbers.

For example, `previousEven(6)` should print out `4 2`, `previousEven(9)` should print out `8 6 4 2`. Make sure to put a space between the numbers and print all the numbers on one line. 

### 1.2 productOfPreviousOdd

Write a method called `productOfPreviousOdd` that takes in a number and returns the product of the previous odd numbers.  

For example, `productOfPreviousOdd(9)` would return `105` because it would multiply `7` by `5` by `3` by `1`. 


### 1.3 sumOfPreviousN

Write a method called `sumOfPreviousN` that takes two integers and returns the sum of the first number minus multiples of the second number. For example,
`sumOfPreviousN(9, 4)` would return `6` because it would add `5` + `1`. `sumOfPreviousN(20, 6)` would return `24` because it would add `14` + `8` + `2`. 


## 2. Playing with Words!

Write a program called `WordsRecursion.java` that implements the following methods. Make sure to test the methods in the file's main method.

 
> **Hint**: You will want to use some of the `String` methods covered in Lab02 and Lab03.

### 2.1 removeLetter

Write a method called `removeLetter` that takes in a String and a letter and returns the String but will all instances of that letter removed.

For example, `removeLetter("asdfghsassaaaae", 'a')` should return `sdfghssse`.

### 2.2 removeLetters

Write a method called `removeLetters` that takes in a String and an array of letters and returns the String but will all instances of the letters removed.

For example, `removeLetter("asdfghsassaaaae", ['a','s'])` should return `dfghe`.

Your method can called `removeLetters` from 2.1


### 2.3 abecedarian

A word is said to be “abecedarian” if the letters in the word
appear in alphabetical order. For example, the following are all six-letter
English abecedarian words:

> abdest, acknow, acorsy, adempt, adipsy, agnosy, befist, behint,
beknow, bijoux, biopsy, cestuy, chintz, deflux, dehors, dehort, deinos,
diluvy, dimpsy

Write a method called `isAbecedarian` that takes a String and returns a
boolean indicating whether the word is abecedarian. 

Your method work for strings of any length. If a string is empty or contains one letter, then it is sorted alphabetically

### 2.4 generateRandWord

Write a method called `generateRandWord` that takes in an integer and returns a word of that length of random letters from `a-z`. 
Each character should be chosen at random.



### 2.5 Isopsephy

[Isopsephy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isopsephy) is the practice of adding up the number values of the letters in a word to form a single number, in Hebrew we often refer to this as [Gematria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gematria). 

### 2.5.1 isopsephy
Write a method called `isopsephy` that takes in a word and returns the isopsephy value of the word.

### 2.5.2 avgIsopsephy
Write a method called `avgIsopsephy` that takes in an array of words and returns the average isopsephy value of the words.



### 2.6 Reverse String

Write a method called `reverseString ` that takes in a string and returns the reverse string. If the word does not contain 10 letters, return an empty string.

> Hint: String concatenation might be helpful here.


# 2. Arrays

In a file called `ArraysRecursion.java`, write the following methods.

## 2.1 isPalindrome

A palindrome is a word (or an ordered collection) that is the same backwords. For example, `madam` and `"a man, a plan, a canal – Panama` are both palindromes.

### 2.1.2 isPalindrome characters

Write a method called `isPalondrome` that takes in an array of characters and returns true if the array is a palindrome. If the array is empty, you can return false.

> Note, do not solve this by reversing the array and then comparing the two arrays.

### 2.1.2 isPalindrome integers

Write a method called `isPalondrome` that takes in an array of integers and returns true if the array is a palindrome. If the array is empty, you can return false.

> Note, do not solve this by reversing the array and then comparing the two arrays.


### 2.2 Sorted

Write a method caled `isSorted` that takes in an array of integers and a boolean and determines if the list of numbers is sorted. If the boolean parameter is `true`, then the method should check if the numbers are sorted in ascending order (1234), if the parameter is `false`, then the method should check if the numbers are sorted in descending order (4321).  





## README.txt

In a text file called `README.txt` answer the following questions:

1. How much time did you spend on the homework
2. What did you learn from this homework
3. optional: What did you struggle with during this homework
4. optional: any other feedback you would like to share

**Dont forget:** make sure to fill in the header in all of your java files.

## Submitting

Submit the following files to the assignment called `HW03` on Gradescope:

1. `NumbersRecursion.java`
1. `WordsRecursion.java`
2. `ArraysRecursion.java`
4. `README.txt`

Make sure to name these files exactly what we specify here and name the methods exactly what we specify too. Otherwise,
our autograders might not work and we might have to take points off.
