---
layout: default
title: Object Oriented Programming - Student Schedule
type: Homework
number: 07
active_tab: homework
release_date: 2023-03-24
due_date: 2023-03-30 23:59:00EDT

---

<!-- Check whether the assignment is ready to release -->
{% capture today %}{{'now' | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture release_date %}{{page.release_date | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if release_date > today %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->


<!-- Check whether the assignment is up to date -->
{% capture this_year %}{{'now' | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture due_year %}{{page.due_date | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if this_year != due_year %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->



{% if page.materials %}
<div class="alert alert-info">
You can download the materials for this assignment here:
<ul>
{% for item in page.materials %}
<li><a href="{{item.url}}">{{ item.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>


</div>
{% endif %}





{{page.type}} {{page.number}}: {{page.title}}
=============================================================

The goals of this assignment are:

- Practice designing classes
- Uses objects
- Working across multiple Java files


> Requirements:
> 
> - Every java file should have a header. However, ***DO NOT PUT YOUR NAME IN YOUR HEADERS***. On gradescope we grade your assignments anonymously so including your name in your Java file will defeat that purpose. However, please include your name in your README.txt
> - Every method should contain a javdoc that briefly describes the method, lists the params, and the return type/value. Use the notation that we used in lectures.
> - All of your instance variables should be `private`. If a subclass will need access to the instance variables, then the instance variables can be `protected` (but not necessary for HW07.


> **WARNING:** In this assignment you are **NOT ALLOWED** to import any packages or classes besides for `java.util.Scanner`, `java.io.File`, and `java.io.FileNotFoundException`. For example, you cannot use the builtin `Arrays` java class to print out an array. Doing so will result in earning **ZERO POINTS** for a method that uses it.

> **IF YOUR CODE DOES NOT COMPILE, YOUR SUBMISSION WILL BE DEDUCTED ATLEAST 10%**. 

## 1. Instructor
We will begin this assignment by creating an `Instructor` class. The instructor class will be pretty simple. It contains the following information:

- name (string): the name of the instructor
- officeBuilding (string): the name of the building where their office is
- officeNumber (int): their office number.

The `Instructor` class must have the following instance methods:

- a value constructor
- getters and setters for each instance variable
- toString() - you are free to design this how you like, just make sure the resulting String contains information from all the instance variables
- equals() that compares all the instance variables

You **must** use your main method to test the implementations for **all** of the instance methods in this class. 

## 2. StudentCourse
Implement a class named `StudentCourse` that represents a course in a student's schedule. Each course should have the following information:

- name (string): the name of the course
- department (string): the department that offers the course
- instructor (Instructor): the instructor for this course
- grade (double): what grade the student earned in the course
- semester (character): what semester the student took the course in (either `F` or `S`)
- year (int): what year the student took the course in. This will be a two digit number. 

The `StudentCourse` class must have the following instance methods:

- a value constructor
- getters and setters for each instance variable
- toString() - you are free to design this how you like, just make sure the resulting String contains information from all the instance variables
- equals() that compares all the instance variables

You **can** use your main method to test the implementations for the instance methods in this class but we will not be checking this, i.e. you will not be graded for testing these methods in main.

## 3. Student
Implement a class named `Student` that represents a student. Each `Student` should have the following information:

- name (string): the name of the student
- major (string): the student's major
- courses (StudentCourse[]): an array of all courses that the student has taken (hint, the number of courses is variable so do not hard code the length). 

The `Student` class must have the following instance methods:

- a value constructor
- getters and setters for each instance variable
- toString() - you are free to design this how you like, just make sure the resulting String contains information from all the instance variables
- equals() that compares all the instance variables
- `computeGPA()` - computes the student's GPA across all courses they have taken. 
- `computeGPA(char semester)` - computes the student's GPA across all courses they have taken in the fall or spring.
- `computeGPA(int year)` - computes the student's GPA across all courses they have taken in a specific year.
- `computeGPA(char semester, int year)` - computes the student's GPA across all courses they have taken in a specific semester.
- `addCourse(StudentCourse course)` - adds a course to the student's list of courses.

You **can** use your main method to test the implementations for the instance methods in this class but we will not be checking this, i.e. you will not be graded for testing these methods in main.

#### GPA
Since we are assuming that every course is 1 credit, 
the GPA is calculated by just taking the average of the grades earned in each course.

 
## 4. Driver
Create a new program called `Driver`.

The program should read in a filename as a command line argument. This file will list course information for all of the courses that a student has taken.
We have provided an example `csv` file [courses.csv]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/hws/hw07/courses.csv) that you can use to test your program.

If the program is not passed in a command line argument, the program should tell the user and terminate.

The program must print out the following information on a new line:
- The student's `GPA` each semester
- The student's `GPA` across fall semesters
- The student's `GPA` across spring semesters
- The student's `GPA` across each academic year
- The student's major `GPA`, i.e. the GPA in the classes that are just in their major.
- The student's final `GPA` 


## README.txt

In a text file called `README.txt` answer the following questions:

1. How much time did you spend on the homework
2. What did you learn from this homework
3. optional: What did you struggle with during this homework
4. optional: any other feedback you would like to share

**Dont forget:** make sure to fill in the header in all of your java files.

## Submitting

Submit the following files to the assignment called `HW07` on Gradescope:

1. `Instructor.java`
1. `StudentCourse.java`
2. `Student.java`
3. `Driver.java`
4. `README.txt`

Make sure to name these files exactly what we specify here and name the methods exactly what we specify too. Otherwise,
our autograders might not work and we might have to take points off.
