---
layout: default
title: SuperArrays - Extra Credit
type: Homework
number: 09
active_tab: homework
release_date: 2023-04-25
due_date: 2023-04-28 17:00:00EDT

---

<!-- Check whether the assignment is ready to release -->
{% capture today %}{{'now' | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture release_date %}{{page.release_date | date: '%s'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if release_date > today %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->


<!-- Check whether the assignment is up to date -->
{% capture this_year %}{{'now' | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% capture due_year %}{{page.due_date | date: '%Y'}}{% endcapture %}
{% if this_year != due_year %} 
<div class="alert alert-danger">
Warning: this assignment is out of date.  It may still need to be updated for this year's class.  Check with your instructor before you start working on this assignment.
</div>
{% endif %}
<!-- End of check whether the assignment is up to date -->



{% if page.materials %}
<div class="alert alert-info">
You can download the materials for this assignment here:
<ul>
{% for item in page.materials %}
<li><a href="{{item.url}}">{{ item.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>


</div>
{% endif %}

<div class="alert alert-danger">
This is an Extra Credit assignment! But to receive the extra credit, you must submit the full assignment. Partial submissions will not be accepted.
</div>



{{page.type}} {{page.number}}: {{page.title}}
=============================================================

The goals of this assignment are:

- Practice designing classes
- Implementing an interface
- Comparing different approaches to sovle a problem

> Requirements:
> 
> - Every java file should have a header. However, ***DO NOT PUT YOUR NAME IN YOUR HEADERS***. On gradescope we grade your assignments anonymously so including your name in your Java file will defeat that purpose. However, please include your name in your README.txt
> - Every method should contain a javdoc that briefly describes the method, lists the params, and the return type/value. Use the notation that we used in lectures.
> - All of your instance variables should be `private`. If a subclass will need access to the instance variables, then the instance variables can be `protected`.


> **WARNING:** In this assignment you are **NOT ALLOWED** to import any packages. For example, you cannot use the builtin `Arrays` java class to print out an array. Doing so will result in earning **ZERO POINTS** for a method that uses it.

> **IF YOUR CODE DOES NOT COMPILE, YOUR SUBMISSION WILL BE DEDUCTED ATLEAST 10%**. 


## 1. Overview

In this last assignment, you will implement two classes: `SuperDuperArray` and `SuperDuperSortedArray`. These classes will implement the interface called `SuperArray`. We will provide you the interface called `SuperArray` that we provide.

You can find the interface [here]({{ site.url }}{{ site.baseurl }}/hws/hw09/SuperArray.java).

Both classes will keep track of an array of `String`s.

For both of these classes, the `toString()` method should return one line that contains all the Strings. Each string should be seperated by a comma and space between each item. The last item should not have a trailing comma and space. 

Make sure to test all of the instance methods in each class.

> **In the javadocs, make sure to write the big-O runtime for each method that you implement.**. 

## 2. SuperDuperArray

In addition to implementing all methods in the interface, `SuperDuperArray`, the class must include the following:

1. a method called `sort()` that takes in an integer to determine whether to sort in `ascending` or `descending` order. `1` means `ascending` and `2` means `descending`. The `sort` method must return a new sorted array. You are free to use Bubble or Selection Sort. You can use the built-in String methods for determining whether one String is greater than another.
2. The class must retain the order in which the elements were added.
 


## 2. SuperDuperSortedArray

Unlike `SuperDuperArray`, this class must always keep the elements sorted. This means the implementation for `add()` will be a bit different.
One approach would be to add the element and then sort the elements, however, this approach would be $$O(n^2)$$. For full points, come up with a faster approach.

Since the Strings in `SuperDuperSortedArray` are stored in order, the implementation for the `contains()` method can also be faster that `SuperDuperArray`'s.



## README.txt

In a text file called `README.txt` answer the following questions:

1. Imagine you are building a program to keep records for a `Vet`. Which class would you rather use `SuperDuperSortedArray` or `SuperDuperSorted`? Make sure to justify your answer - there is no wrong answer here.
2. Next, make an argument for why it would be a good idea to use the other class that you didnt advocate for before.
1. How much time did you spend on the homework
2. What did you learn from this homework
3. optional: What did you struggle with during this homework
4. optional: any other feedback you would like to share

**Dont forget:** make sure to fill in the header in all of your java files.

## Submitting

Submit the following files to the assignment called `HW09` on Gradescope:

1. `SuperDuperArray.java`
1. `SuperDuperSortedArray.java `
4. `README.txt`

Make sure to name these files exactly what we specify here and name the methods exactly what we specify too. Otherwise,
our autograders might not work and we might have to take points off.
